{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 00:01\par
- In the 1930s, Albert Einstein was upset with quantum mechanics. He proposed a thought\par
00:07\par
experiment where, according to the theory, an event at one point in the universe could\par
00:11\par
instantaneously affect another event arbitrarily far away. He called this "spooky action at\par
00:19\par
a distance" because he thought it was absurd. It seemed to imply faster than light communication,\par
00:24\par
something his theory of relativity ruled out. But nowadays, we can do this experiment, and\par
00:30\par
what we find is, indeed, spooky. But in order to understand it, we must first understand\par
00:37\par
spin. All fundamental particles have a property called spin. No, they're not actually spinning,\par
00:44\par
but the analogy is appropriate. They have angular momentum, and they have an orientation\par
00:48\par
in space. Now, we can measure the spin of a particle, but we have to choose the direction\par
00:53\par
in which to measure it, and this measurement can have only one of two outcomes. Either\par
00:57\par
the particle\rquote s spin is aligned with the direction of measurement, which we'll call\par
01:00\par
spin up, or, it is opposite the measurement, which we'll call spin down. Now, what happens\par
01:05\par
if the particle spin is vertical, but we measure it's spin horizontally? Well then, it has\par
01:11\par
a 50% chance of being spin up, and a 50% chance of being spin down, and after the measurement,\par
01:18\par
the particle maintains this spin, so measuring its spin actually changes the spin of the\par
01:24\par
particle. What if we measure spin at an angle 60 degrees from the vertical? Well now, since\par
01:30\par
the spin of the particle is more aligned to this measurement, it will be spin up 3/4 of\par
01:35\par
the time, and spin down 1/4 of the time. The probability depends on the square of the cosine\par
01:41\par
of half the angle. Now, an experiment like the one Einstein proposed can be performed\par
01:46\par
using two of these particles, but they must be prepared in a particular way. For example,\par
01:52\par
formed spontaneously out of energy. Now, since the total angular momentum of the universe\par
01:58\par
must stay constant, you know that if one particle is measured to have spin up, the other, measured\par
02:04\par
in the same direction, must have spin down. I should point out, it's only if the two particles\par
02:09\par
are measured in the same direction that their spins must be opposite. Now here's where things\par
02:14\par
start to get a little weird. You might imagine that each particle is created with a definite\par
02:19\par
well-defined spin, but that won't work, and here's why. Imagine their spins were vertical\par
02:25\par
and opposite. Now, if they're both measured in a horizontal direction, each one has a\par
02:29\par
50/50 chance of being spin up. So, there's actually a 50% chance that both measurements\par
02:35\par
will yield the same spin outcome, and this would violate the law of conservation of angular\par
02:40\par
momentum. According to quantum mechanics, these particles don't have a well-defined\par
02:44\par
spin at all. They are entangled, which means their spin is simply opposite that of the\par
02:50\par
other particle. So, when one particle is measured, and its spin determined, you immediately know\par
02:56\par
what the same measurement of the other particle will be. This has been rigorously and repeatedly\par
03:01\par
tested experimentally. It doesn't matter at which angle the detectors are set, or how\par
03:06\par
far apart they are, they always measure opposite spins. Now just stop for a minute, and think\par
03:12\par
about how crazy this is. Both particles have undefined spins, and then you measure one,\par
03:18\par
and immediately you know the spin of the other particle, which could be light-years away.\par
03:23\par
It's as though the choice of the first measurement has influenced the result of the second faster\par
03:29\par
than the speed of light, which is, indeed, how some theorists interpret the result. But\par
03:34\par
not Einstein. Einstein was really bothered by this. He preferred an alternate explanation,\par
03:39\par
that all along the particles contained hidden information about which spin they would have\par
03:44\par
if measured in any direction. It's just that we didn't know this information until we measured\par
03:49\par
them. Now, since that information was within the particles from the moment they formed\par
03:54\par
at the same point in space, no signal would ever have to travel between the two particles\par
03:58\par
faster than light. Now, for a time, scientists accepted this view that there were just some\par
04:04\par
things about the particles we couldn't know before we measured them. But then along came\par
04:08\par
John Bell with a way to test this idea. This experiment can determine whether the particles\par
04:14\par
contain hidden information all along, or not, and this is how it works. There are two spin\par
04:20\par
detectors, each capable of measuring spin in one of three directions. These measurement\par
04:25\par
directions will be selected randomly, and independent of each other. Now, pairs of entangled\par
04:30\par
particles will be sent to the two detectors, and we record whether the measured spins are\par
04:34\par
the same, both up, or both down, or different. We'll repeat this procedure over and over,\par
04:40\par
randomly varying those measurement directions, to find the percentage of the time the two\par
04:44\par
detectors give different results, and this is the key, because that percentage depends\par
04:50\par
on whether the particles contain hidden information all along, or if they don't. Now, to see why\par
04:56\par
this is the case, let's calculate the expected frequency of different readings if the particles\par
05:01\par
do contain hidden information. Now, you can think of this hidden information like a secret\par
05:06\par
plan the particles agree to, and the only criterion that plan must satisfy is that if\par
05:11\par
the particles are ever measured in the same direction, they must give opposite spins.\par
05:16\par
So, for example, one plan could be that one particle will give spin up for every measurement\par
05:21\par
direction, and its pair would give spin down for every measurement direction. Or another\par
05:26\par
plan, plan two, could be that one particle could give spin up for the first direction,\par
05:30\par
spin down for the second direction, and spin up for the third direction, whereas its partner\par
05:34\par
would give spin down for the first direction, spin up for the second direction, and spin\par
05:37\par
down for the third direction. All other plans are mathematically equivalent, so we can work\par
05:41\par
out the expected frequency of different results using these two plans. Here, I'm visually\par
05:46\par
representing the particles by their plans, their hidden information. With plan one, the\par
05:51\par
results will obviously be different 100% of the time. It doesn't matter which measurement\par
05:56\par
directions are selected, but it does for particles using the second plan. For example, if both\par
06:01\par
detectors measure in the first direction, particle A gives spin up, while particle B\par
06:05\par
gives spin down. The results are different. But if instead, detector B measured in the\par
06:09\par
second direction, the result would be spin up, so the spins are the same. We can continue\par
06:14\par
doing this for all the possible measurement combinations, and what we find, is the results\par
06:18\par
are different five out of nine times. So, using the second plan, the results should\par
06:23\par
be different 5/9 of the time, and using the first plan, the results should be different\par
06:28\par
100% of the time, so overall, if the particles contain hidden information, you should see\par
06:33\par
different results more than 5/9 of the time. So what do we actually see in experiment?\par
06:40\par
Well, the results are different only 50% of the time. It doesn't work, so the experiment\par
06:49\par
rules out the idea that all along, these particles contain hidden information about which spin\par
06:54\par
they will give in the different directions. So, how does quantum mechanics account for\par
06:59\par
this result? Well, let's imagine detector A measures spin in the first direction, and\par
07:04\par
the result is spin up. Now, immediately you know that the other particle is spin down\par
07:09\par
if measured in the first direction, which would happen randomly 1/3 of the time. However,\par
07:15\par
if particle B is measured in one of the other two directions, it makes an angle of 60 degrees\par
07:20\par
with these measurement directions, and recall, from the beginning of this video, the resulting\par
07:24\par
measurement should be spin up 3/4 of the time. Since these measurement directions will be\par
07:29\par
randomly selected 2/3 of the time, particle B will give spin up 2/3 times 3/4 equals half\par
07:36\par
of the time. So both detectors should give the same results half of the time, and different\par
07:41\par
results half of the time, which is exactly what we see in the experiment. So quantum\par
07:47\par
mechanics works. But there is debate over how to interpret these results. Some physicists\par
07:53\par
see them as evidence that there is no hidden information in quantum particles, and it only\par
07:58\par
makes sense to talk about spins once they've been measured, whereas other physicists believe\par
08:03\par
that entangled particles can signal each other faster than light to update their hidden information\par
08:08\par
when one is measured. So, does this mean that we can use entangled particles to communicate\par
08:14\par
faster than light? Well, everyone agrees that we can't. And that is because the results\par
08:20\par
that you find at either detector are random. It doesn't matter which measurement direction\par
08:26\par
you select, or what's happening at the other detector, there's a 50/50 probability of obtaining\par
08:30\par
spin up or spin down. Only if these observers later met up and compared notebooks, would\par
08:36\par
they realize that when they selected the same direction, they always got opposite spins.\par
08:42\par
Both sets of data would be random, just the opposite random from the other observer. That\par
08:48\par
is, indeed, spooky, but it doesn't allow for the communication, the sending of information\par
08:53\par
from one point to another, faster than light, so it doesn't violate the theory of relativity.\par
08:59\par
And that, at the very least, would make Einstein happy\par
}
 